#summary Instructions for the command-line installer

= Introduction =
While the web interface version of the biocode-fims provides many features to make data validation and uploading easy, sometimes it is necessary to batch-validate or batch-load  large numbers of files.  For this reason, we've created the following command-line loader.

= Requirements =

UNIX or MacOS operating system.  
Knowledge of running applications from the command-line on these systems

= Installation =

  * Download the latest Command-Line File listed in the [https://code.google.com/p/biocode-fims/source/browse/trunk/downloads/ downloads folder]
  * chmod +x {file_name}
  * run the program in the spot where it downloads (the installer may build symbolic links on your system)

= Running the biocode-fims from the command-line =

The online application automatically detects the project code while the command-line version does NOT.  Thus, you must lookup the right project code at [http://biscicol.org/id/projectService/list Project Lookup Site].  Once you have the project code, validating and uploading data is easy fairly straightforward.  Here is a simple example to get you started validating:

{{{
./fims -i {path_to_data_file} -p {project_id}
}}}

Here is the complete command-line syntax that supports, validation, upload, and query.

{{{
usage: fims  [-e <arg>] [-f <arg>] [-F <arg>] [-h] [-i <arg>] [-o <arg>]
       [-P <arg>] [-p <arg>] [-q <arg>] [-t] [-U <arg>] [-u]
 -e,--dataset_code <arg>       Dataset code.  You will need to obtain a
                               data code before loading data
 -f,--format <arg>             excel|html|json  specifying the return
                               format for the query
 -F,--filter <arg>             Filter results based on a keyword search
 -h,--help                     print this help message and exit
 -i,--input_file <arg>         Input Spreadsheet
 -o,--output_directory <arg>   Output Directory
 -P,--password <arg>           Password (for uploading data)
 -p,--project_id <arg>         Project Identifier.  A numeric integer
                               corresponding to your project
 -q,--query <arg>              Run a query and pass in graph UUIDs to look
                               at for this query -- Use this along with
                               options C and S
 -t,--triplify                 Triplify only (upload process triplifies)
 -U,--username <arg>           Username (for uploading data)
 -u,--upload                   Upload
}}}